## JUnit and Unit Testing
Unit Testing is a great way to rigorously test each method of your code and ultimately ensure that you have a working project.

The “Unit” part of Unit Testing comes from the idea that you can break your program down into units, or the smallest testable part of an application. Therefore, Unit Testing enforces good code structure (each method should only do “One Thing”), and allows you to consider all of the edge cases for each method and test for them individually.

In this class, you will be using JUnit to create and run tests on your code to ensure its correctness. And when JUnit tests fail, you will have an excellent starting point for debugging. Furthermore, if you have some terrible bug that is hard to fix, you can use git to revert back to a state when your code was working properly according to the JUnit tests 

#### JUnit Syntax

As discussed in lecture, JUnit tests are written in Java.

Open `ArithmeticTest.java`.

The first thing you’ll notice are the imports at the top (IntelliJ sometimes shortens these to `import ...`; just click on the `...` to expand this and see what exactly is being imported). These imports are what give you easy access to the JUnit methods and functionality that you’ll need to run JUnit tests. For more information, see the [Testing lecture video](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8FaHk7qbOD4ZfVY8g8lo5dFrLP-ctGmT).

Next, you’ll see that there are two methods in `ArithmeticTest.java`: `testProduct` and `testSum`. These methods follow this format:

```Java
@Test
public void testMethod() {
    assertEquals(<expected>, <actual>);
}
```

`assertEquals` is a common method used in JUnit tests. It tests whether a variable’s actual value is equivalent to its expected value.

When you create JUnit test files, you should precede each test method with a `@Test` annotation, and can have one or more `assertEquals` or `assertTrue` methods (provided by the JUnit library). **All tests must be non-static.** This may seem weird since your tests don’t use instance variables and you probably won’t instantiate the class. However, this is how the designers of JUnit decided tests should be written, so we’ll go with it.
## Features
JUnit tests are short-circuiting - as soon as one of the asserts in a method fails, it will output the failure and move on to the next test.